.TH SPACE-NERDS-IN-SPACE "6" "Jan 2025" "snis_update_assets" "Games"
.SH NAME
snis_update_assets \- a utility for copying and downloading art assets for "Space Nerds In Space."
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snis_update_assets [ --dry-run ] [ --force ] [ --verbose ] [ --srcdir dir ] --destdir dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.warn 511
.PP
snis_update_assets is a tool for updating and copying art assets for the game "Space Nerds In Space."
It can copy local assets and download remote assets from https://spacenerdsinspace.com. It only copies
or downloads files which are new or different than existing files in the destination directory. It is
normally invoked via the snis_launcher script rather than directly by the user.
.SH Options:
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Invokes the "dry run" mode in which no files are copied and only the manifest is downloaded from
spacenerdsinspace.com. Instead of copying files or downloading files, only messages are printed
describing what would have been downloaded or copied.
.TP
\fB--destdir directory\fR
This required argument specifies the destination directory for copied and downloaded files.
.TP
\fB--force\fR
Without this option, you are warned that this program is experimental, and asked if you
wish to proceed. With the --force option, this warning is skipped.
.TP
\fB--srcdir\fR
This optional argument specifies a source directory from which files are to be copied.
If it is omitted, then files are downloaded from https://spacenerdsinspace.com
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Extra messages are printed. This can be useful for debugging snis_update_assets, or
determining why it isn't doing what you expect.
.SH
EXAMPLES
.PP
Normally snis_update_assets is not invoked directly by the user, but indirectly from
within the snis_launcher script, or from within the "make install" Makefile target.
.PP

Here are some sample invocations of snis_update_assets:

   # Copy from ./share/snis to ~/.local/share/space-nerds-in-space
   bin/snis_update_assets --force --destdir ~/.local/share/space-nerds-in-space --srcdir ./share/snis

   # Download extra assets from spacenerdsinspace.com:
   bin/snis_update_assets --force --destdir ~/.local/share/space-nerds-in-space
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
snis_client(6), ssgl_server(6), snis_server(6)
.SH AUTHOR
snis_update_assets was written by Stephen M. Cameron
.br
