.TH SPACE-NERDS-IN-SPACE "6" "Jan 2014" "snis_multiverse" "Games"
.SH NAME
snis_multiverse \- Multi player cooperative star ship bridge simulator (server wrangler)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snis_multiverse [--autowrangle] -l lobby -n server-nickname, -L server-location [--exempt snis-server-location]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.warn 511
.PP
snis_multiverse is a meta-server process for the game Space Nerds In Space, which is
a multiplayer starship bridge simulator.  The meta-server process tracks player
ships between instances of the server process.  It is what enables player ships
to travel from one snis_server instance to another, possibly on a different host.
The "gameinstance" parameter is used by the game lobby
process (ssgl_server) to distinguish one game instance from another running
on the same host.
The gameinstance should be a short human readable string to uniquely identify
the game instance.  The serverhost is the hostname of the server hosting the
ssgl_multiverse process.  The location is a human readable string giving some idea
of the location of the server, or some other descriptive information.
.SH Options:
.TP
\fB--acknowledgments\fR
Prints out acknowledgments and license information and exits.
.TP
\fB\--autowrangle, -a\fR
Automatically start snis_server processes within one warp-gate hop
of any player, and automatically shutdown snis_server process not within
one warp gate hop of any player.
.TP
\fB\--exempt, -e\fR
Exempt a snis_server location from autowrangling. If you use autowrangling
you need to exempt at least one snis_server location otherwise snis_multiverse
will immediately shut down all snis_servers since, initially, there are no
connected player ships anywhere.
.TP
\fB\--lobby, -l lobbyserver\fR
Specify the lobby server hostname or IP address.
.TP
\fB\--servernick, -n nickname\fR
Specify the nickname of this multiverse process.
(It's not really used for anything, nevertheless, it's required.)
\fB\--location, -L location\fR
Specify the location of this multiverse process.
(It's not really used for anything, nevertheless, it's required.)
\fB\--version\fR
Print the program's version number and exit.
.TP
.SH FILES
.TP
\fB./snis_multiverse_log.txt\fR
(Only if started via snis_launcher.) This file contains the stdout and
stderr of snis_multiverse, Can be useful for debugging.  This file can
be relocated via the SNIS_LOG_DIR environment variable.
.TP
\fB./snisdb\fR
Directory containing a database of bridge data.  This database is used for verifying
username/passwords for bridges and for storing bridge state to allow bridges to transition
from one snis_server instance to another.

This directory is normally stored in the current directory of the snis_multiverse process
but can be relocated via the environment variable SNIS_DB_DIR.  If SNIS_DB_DIR is set to,
for instance, /home/kilroy, then the database will be stored under /home/kilroy/snisdb

.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
snis_client(6), ssgl_server(6)
.SH GOOD LUCK
.PP
You'll need it.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Stephen M. Cameron
.br
