.TH SPACE-NERDS-IN-SPACE "6" "FEBRUARY 2025" "snis_client" "Games"
.SH NAME
snis_client \- Multi player cooperative star ship bridge simulator (client) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snis_client [ OPTIONS ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.warn 511
.PP
snis_client is the client process for the game Space Nerds In Space, which is
a multiplayer starship bridge simulator.  The server process simulates the 
game universe and processes input data from client processes and sends updated
game state information
to client processes.  The serverhost parameter is the hostname of the host
running the ssgl_server game lobby process.  The shipname parameter is the name
of the ship in the game universe to which the client should connect (if the ship
does not exist, one is created).  The password is the password for the ship in the
game. This is an insecure "password", transmitted in plaintext.  The first client
on a ship establishes a ship name and password, subsequent clients join the ship.
(Mistyping either the shipname or the password will result in a new ship being
created with the wrong name/password.)
.SH Examples:
.TP
- Ordinary invocation:
.nf

	snis_client
.fi
.TP
- Connect to a remote ssgl_server, start up in fullscreen mode, and skip the process launcher screen:
.nf

	snis_client --lobbyhost mycloudserver.example.com --fullscreen \\
		--no-launcher
.fi
.TP
- Connect to a remote bare snis_server instance on port 20000 with no lobby and no snis_multiverse:
.nf

	snis_client --nolobby --no-launcher --starship Enterprise \\
		--pw tribbles -s myserver.example.com -p 20000
.fi
.SH Options:
.TP
\fB--acknowledgments\fR
Prints out acknowledgments and license information and exits.
.TP
\fB-r x:y, --aspect-ratio x:y\fR
Specify a requested aspect ratio.  By default, the window manager is queried
to determine the display dimensions, and the aspect ratio is made to match.
Other arbitrary aspect ratios may be specified.  This may be desirable if
you have a display that is significantly different from the display the game
was designed on (16:9).  Common aspect ratios (circa 2015) are 5:4, 4:3, 16:10
and 16:9 (according to wikipedia). The values specified for x and y must be
integers greater than zero and must be separatedy by a comma or a colon.  Specifying
and aspect ratio will disable the --fullscreen option.  Note: You may experience
some problems with widget and text placement with aspect ratios significantly
different than 16:9.
.TP
\fB\-A, --allroles\fR
This snis_client should be able to display all roles.
.TP
\fB\-C, --comms\fR
Request this client process support the COMMS (communication) role.
.TP
\fB\--debug\fR
Request this client process support the DEBUG role.
.TP
\fB\-E, --engineering\fR
Request this client process support the ENGINEERING role.
.TP
\fB\-f, --fullscreen\fR
Use the full display, with no window borders.  This option is ignored
if the --aspect-ratio option is also specified.
.TP
\fB\-j joystick-device, --joystick joystick-device\fR
Specify the joystick device file to use.  Typically something like
/dev/input/by-id/something-or-other.
.TP
\fB\-J, --projector\fR
Request this client support the PROJECTOR role.
.TP
\fB\-M, --main\fR
Request this client process support the MAIN SCREEN role.
.TP
\fB\-m, --monitor m\fR
If your system has multiple monitors, the --monitor option allows you to
specify which one you want to use.  It takes an integer argument, with 0
being the first monitor, 1 being the second, etc.  The default monitor may
be designated by -1 (or by omitting the --monitor option entirely). NOTE:
this option is broken since snis_client was converted from GTK2 to SDL2.
.TP
\fB\-N, --navigation\fR
Request this client process support the NAVIGATION role.
\fB\-l hostname, --lobbyhost hostname\fR
Specify the hostname or IP address of the machine running the ssgl_server
game lobby.
.TP
\fB\-L, --nolobby\fR
Do not use the lobby server.  This option requires that the
--serverport and --serverhost options be used and that the --lobbyhost
option is not used.  It also requires that the --starship and --pw options
be used as the network setup screen will be skipped.  It also requires that
the snis_server you will be connecting to was started with the
SNISSERVERPORT and SNISNOLOBBY environment variables set to the portnumber
you want to use and to 1, respectively.
.TP
\fB\--no-launcher\fR
Suppress the SNIS process launcher screen that appears when snis_client
starts up.  If you are only running the snis_client, and other processes
are all on another machine, what appears on the launcher screen is
superfluous.  If you are using the snis_launcher script to start SNIS processes
it uses this flag when starting SNIS client, as snis_launcher can do
everything the snis_client launcher screen can do and more.
.TP
\fB\--no-textures\fR
Do not load all the ordinarily used textures. Instead load the same small
texture for every texture in the game.  This can be useful when running
stations that do not use textures on memory constrained systems. (E.g. NAV,
ENGINEERING, DAMAGE CONTROL, SCIENCE and COMMS). This can save approximately
400Mb of memory usage.
.TP
\fB\-S, --science\fR
Request this client process support the SCIENCE role.
.TP
\fB\-s host, --serverhost host\fR
Specify the hostname of the server to contact.  This option requires
the --nolobby and --serverport options are also used, and requires that
the --lobbyhost option is not used.
.TP
\fB\-p portnumber, --serverport portnumber\fR
Specify the portnumber of the snis_server process.  This option requires
the --nolobby and --serverhost options are also used, and requires that
the --lobbyhost option is not used.
.TP
\fB\-n shipname, --starship shipname\fR
Specifies the name of your space ship.  The shipname together with the password
identify your space ship.
.TP
\fB\-P password, --pw password\fR
Specifies the password to be used to connect to a snis_server process.
\fB\--solarsystem solarsystem\fR
Load the specified solarsystem assets instead of the default assets.  These
are defined by "$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/solarsystems/*/assets.txt".
.TP
\fB\-a, --soundserver\fR
Request this client process support the SOUNDSERVER role.
.TP
\fB\--auto-download-assets\fR
Automatically download art assets from spacenerdsinspace.com
.TP
\fB\-W, --weapons\fR
Request this client process support the WEAPONS role.
.TP
\fB\-v, --version\fR
Print the program's version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-q, --quickstart\fR
Allows connecting to the first entry in ssgl_server automatically.
This option is deprecated and will likely be removed soon.
\fB\-t, --trap-nans\fR
This option is for debugging floating point problems, and will cause the
program to trap (crash) on divide by zero, invalid or overflow conditions
instead of propagating NaN (not-a-number) values through floating point
calculations.
\fB\-x, --no-splash-screen\fR
Suppress the splash screen on start up.
\fB\-y number\fR
Requested aspect ratio y dimension.  This option is deprecated and will
likely be removed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
SNIS_ASSET_DIR if set controls the directory from which sounds and 3D models
are read.  By default, "share/snis" is used.
.PP
SNIS_COLORS if set, the file $SNIS_ASSET_DIR/$SNIS_COLORS is read to obtain
color information instead of reading the default file of $SNIS_ASSET_DIR/user_colors.cfg
.PP
SNIS_SUPPRESS_RENDER_TO_TEXTURE if set, suppresses the use of OpenGL's render to texture
feature even if the driver claims to support it.
.PP
SNIS_SUPPRESS_MSAA if set, suppresses the use of OpenGL's MSAA
feature even if the driver claims to support it.
.PP
SNIS_SUPPRESS_RENDER_TO_FBO if set, suppresses the use of OpenGL's render to fbo
feature even if the driver claims to support it.
.PP
SNIS_AUDIO_DEVICE if set, manually selects an audio device. Ordinarily a default
device is chosen.  This variable allows the default device to be overridden.  This
value should be an integer between 0 and the number of sound devices you have minus
one.  You can see which audio devices you have by running "aplay -l", or
"pactl list".  Note: Text-to-Speech functionality (e.g. "the computer" within the
game) will not honor SNIS_AUDIO_DEVICE as text to speech is implemented by an
external program (either pico2wave (plus play or aplay) or espeak) which figures
out which sound device to use on its own.
.PP
.SH FILES
.PP
$XDG_DATA_HOME/space-nerds-in-space is a directory used to store
various user defaults.  If $XDG_DATA_HOME is not set, $HOME/.local/share
is assumed. Old versions of snis_client would use ~/.space-nerds-in-space.
See https://specifications.freedesktop.org/basedir-spec/basedir-spec-latest.html
.PP
$XDG_DATA_HOME/space-nerds-in-space/default_ship_name.txt
This file preserves the ship name field between runs so that you
do not have to re-type it each time in the login screen.
.PP
$XDG_DATA_HOME/space-nerds-in-space/role_defaults.txt
This file preserves the selected roles between runs so that you
do not have to fill in the checkboxes each time in the login
screen.
.PP
$XDG_DATA_HOME/space-nerds-in-space/snis_ui_position_offsets.txt
This file preserves positions of UI elements if the user moves them
and saves them.
.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/sounds/*.ogg, various audio files used by the game.
.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/models/*.stl, various 3D models used by the game.
.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/solarsystems/*/assets.txt, per-solarsystem art assets.
.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/replacement_assets.txt
This file allows replacement of standard assets with other assets. The
line of the file contains two filenames, separated by any combination
of spaces and tabs. The first filename is the original asset file name,
e.g., "./share/snis/models/cruiser.stl", and the second file name is the
replacement asset file. e.g., "./share/snis/models/my_fancy_model.obj".
Comments beginning with '#' and blank lines are permitted.
Currently this asset replacement system only works for textures, ship
models and sounds. Note the
replacement models should be similarly scaled and oriented as the original
models. Normally the orientation should be such that the positive X axis if
forward and the positive Y axis is up.  Some models may deviate from this (e.g.
snis3006.obj) and have some compensation applied via ship_types.txt.
Replacement models should have the same deviation in orientation.  Note: likely
this system does not yet work well when SNIS_ASSET_DIR has a value that
deviates from the default.
.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/joystick_config.txt, joystick configuration file. The format
of this file is as follows.
.PP
A "device:" line begins the configuration for a new device (i.e. a particular kind of joystick).
The device names on the "device:" lines are regular expressions which should match
the names of the devices as they appear in /dev/input/by-id/*.
.PP
A "mode" is a name or a number that refers to a terminal (screen) in the game. The modes
are described in comments in the joystick config file example below.
.PP
An "axis" line defines how an axis is to be interpreted for the current (last specified)
device by mapping the axis to a "function" (defined below).  Optionally, an axis may also
specify a deadzone value (default is 6000), a range in the axis which will have no effect.
If you do not want a deadzone (as is common for throttle controls), specify the deadzone
as 0.
.PP
A "button" line defines how a button is to be interpreted for the current (last specified)
device by mapping the button to a "function" (defined below).
.PP
A "function" is one of several predefined words:
yaw,
roll,
pitch,
phaser,
torpedo,
missile,
weapons-yaw,
weapons-pitch,
damcon-pitch,
damcon-roll,
throttle,
warp,
weapons-wavelength,
damcon-gripper,
nav-engage-warp,
nav-standard-orbit,
nav-docking-magnets,
nav-attitude-indicator-abs-rel,
nav-starmap,
nav-reverse,
nav-lights,
nav-nudge-warp-up,
nav-nudge-warp-down,
nav-nudge-zoom-up,
nav-nudge-zoom-down,
weapons-wavelength-up,
weapons-wavelength-down,
nav-change-pov

.PP
.DI
.nf
#
# Joystick config file for Space Nerds In Space
# The code that reads this file is in joystick_config.c
#
# If you add any new joystick configs to this file, please
# consider forwarding the new config to stephenmcameron@gmail.com
#
# The modes are as follows:
# (See DISPLAYMODE_* #defines in snis_packet.h)
#
# mode main - main screen
# mode navigation - navigation
# mode weapons - weapons
# mode engineering - engineering
# mode science - science
# mode comms - comms
# mode demon - demon screen
# mode damcon - damage control
#
# Instead of names, you may also use numbers
#
# mode 0 # means the same as mode main
# mode 1 # means the same as mode navigation
# mode 2 # means the same as mode weapons
# mode 3 # means the same as mode engineering
# mode 4 # means the same as mode science
# mode 5 # means the same as mode comms
# mode 6 # means the same as mode demon
# mode 7 # means the same as mode damcon
#
# You can set the mode by itself, or on lines that also set axis or button functions.
# Once a mode is set, it remains in effect until you change it again.
#
device:usb-©Microsoft_Corporation_Controller_05EB4AD-joystick
 # main screen
 mode main axis 3 roll
 mode main axis 4 pitch
 mode main axis 0 yaw
 mode 0 button 3 phaser
 mode 0 button 2 torpedo
 mode navigation
   axis 3 roll
   axis 4 pitch
   axis 0 yaw
 mode weapons
   axis 3 weapons-yaw
   axis 4 weapons-pitch
   axis 0 weapons-yaw
 mode damcon
   axis 3 damcon-roll
   axis 4 damcon-pitch
   button 1 damcon-gripper
   button 0 damcon-gripper
 mode 2 button 3 phaser
 mode 2 button 2 torpedo
device:usb-Thrustmaster_TWCS_Throttle-joystick
 # main screen
 mode 0 axis 2 throttle 0
 mode 0 axis 5 yaw
 # navigation
 mode 1 axis 2 throttle 0
 mode 1 axis 5 yaw
 # weapons
 mode 2 axis 5 weapons-yaw
 mode 2 axis 5 damcon-roll
device:usb-Thrustmaster_T.16000M-joystick
 # main screen
 mode 0 axis 0 roll
 mode 0 axis 1 pitch
 mode 0 axis 2 yaw
 mode 0 button 0 phaser
 mode 0 button 1 torpedo
 # navigation
 mode 1 axis 0 roll
 mode 1 axis 1 pitch
 mode 1 axis 2 yaw
 # weapons
 mode 2 axis 0 weapons-yaw # yaw, not roll, weapons doesn't have roll
 mode 2 axis 1 weapons-pitch
 mode 2 axis 2 weapons-yaw
 mode 2 button 0 phaser
 mode 2 button 1 torpedo
 # damcon
 mode 7 button 1 damcon-gripper
 mode 7 button 0 damcon-gripper
 mode 7 axis 0 damcon-roll
 mode 7 axis 1 damcon-pitch
 mode 7 axis 2 damcon-roll
.fi
.DE
.br
.PP
This is all still somewhat preliminary and the format of this file will
likely change.
.PP
/dev/input/by-id/*, the joystick device nodes.
.PP
/dev/input/event5, the rumble effect device. 
.PP
/tmp/snis-natural-language-fifo, a named pipe which the client reads from.  Anything sent into this
pipe is forwarded to snis_server as a natural language request.  This is useful for sending the output
of a speech recognition system to snis_server.
.PP
/tmp/snis-demon-fifo, a named pipe which the client reads from. Anything sent into this pipe
is forwarded to snis_server as a command to be run on the demon screen.
.PP
$XDG_DATA_HOME/space-nerds-in-space/snis-keymap.txt, the keyboard remapping configuration file.
.TP
The format of the keyboard remapping file is as follows:
.br
.br
Lines beginning with a '#' are comments.
.br
.br
Key mappings are defined by lines of the form "map stationlist key action"
.br
.br
Valid actions are:
.br
.br
.DI
    none, down, up, left, right, torpedo, transform,
    fullscreen, thrust, quit, pause, reverse,
    mainscreen, navigation, weapons, science,
    damage, debug, demon, f8, f9, f10, onscreen,
    viewmode, zoom, unzoom, phaser, rendermode,
    keyrollleft, keyrollright, keyschiball_yawleft,
    keysciball_yawright, keysciball_pitchup,
    keysciball_pitchdown, keysciball_rollright,
    keysciball_rollleft, key_invert_vertical,
    key_toggle_frame_stats, key_camera_mode, key_page_up,
    key_page_down, key_toggle_space_dust,
    key_sci_mining_bot, key_sci_tractor_beam,
    key_sci_waypoints, key_sci_lrs, key_sci_srs,
    key_sci_details, key_weap_fire_missile,
    key_space, key_robot_gripper, key_demon_console,
    key_toggle_external_camera, key_increase_warp,
    key_decrease_warp, key_increase_impulse,
    key_decrease_impulse, key_engage_warp, keyreverse,
    key_docking_magnets, key_exterior_lights, key_standard_orbit,
    key_starmap,
.DI
.br
Valid keys are:  
.br
.br
a-z, A-Z, 0-9, and most printable characters.
Keypad numerals 0-9 may be specified as kp_0 through  kp_9,  and
function  keys  f1  through  f12 can be specified f1 through f12
(obviously).  In addition the following strings may be  used  to
specify the corresponding keys:
.br
.br
.DI
       space       enter         return   backspace    delete
       pause       scrolllock    escape   sysreq       left
       right       up            down     kp_home      kp_down
       kp_up       kp_left       kp_right kp_end       kp_delete
       kp_insert   home          down     end          delete
       insert
.DE
.br
.br
stationlist is a comma separated list of stations for which the action and key
should be associated. Valid station names are as follows:
.DI
        mainscreen,
        navigation,
        weapons,
        engineering,
        science,
        comms,
        demon,
        damcon,
        fonttest,
        introscreen,
        lobbyscreen,
        connecting,
        connected,
        network_setup,
.DE
Additionally, the word "all" may be used to indicate the key-action assocation
should be in effect on all stations.

.PP
$SNIS_ASSET_DIR/user_colors.cfg allows customizing of the colors of nearlly all UI
elements.  The file contains comments describing its format. In brief, there are
three types of lines.  A comment is a line beginning with a '#' or containing only
whitespace, and is ignored.  A 'color' line begins with the word 'color', which is
followed by a user supplied name (eg: 'purple') then a space, then a color definition
which is a '#' followed by 2 hex digits for each of red, green and blue, so, for
example:
.br
.DI

color purple #ff00ff

.DE
.PP
Finally, lines to change the colors of ui-components are of the form:
.br
.DI

ui-component color

.DE
where 'ui-component' is a 'magic word' identifying one of the ui components
(see comments in $SNIS_ASSET_DIR/user_colors.cfg) and color is either a word
defined in a prior 'color' line, or else a color specification of the form
#rrggbb where r, g, and b are hex digits.  For example:
.br
.DI

nav-button purple
.br
nav-slider #00ff00

.DE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
snis_server(6), ssgl_server(6), snis_multiverse(6)
.SH GOOD LUCK
.PP
You'll need it.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Stephen M. Cameron 
.br
