.TH SPACE-NERDS-IN-SPACE "6" "Feb 2025" "snis_server" "Games"
.SH NAME
snis_server \- Multi player cooperative star ship bridge simulator (server) 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B snis_server
-l lobbyhost
-L location
[ -m multiverse location ]
[ -n servernick ]
[ --enable-enscript ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" Add any additional description here
.warn 511
.PP
snis_server is a server process for the game Space Nerds In Space, which is a
multiplayer starship bridge simulator.  The server process simulates the game
universe and processes input data from client processes and sends outputs to
client processes.  The "location" parameter is used to distinguish one game
instance from another running on the same host (multiple snis_server processes
may be run on the same host).  The location should be a short human readable
string to uniquely identify the game instance and is required.  The lobbyhost
is the hostname of the server hosting the ssgl_server process.
.SH Examples:
.TP
Note:
Normally, you shouldn't have to start snis_server manually yourself.  It should
either be started by snis_client, snis_multiverse, or by the snis_launcher script.
But in case you want to start it manually for whatever reason, here are some
examples.
.TP
- Ordinary invocation
.nf

	snis_server -l lobbyhost -L location -m multiverse-location \\
		-n server-nickname
.fi
.TP
- Bare snis_server
Running a bare snis_server instance with no lobby and no snis_multiverse, allowing
WAN connections from snis_clients on port 20000
.nf

	export SNISSERVERNOLOBBY=1
	export SNISSERVERPORT=20000
	snis_server --allow-remote-networks -L location -s solarsystem \\
		-n server-nickname
.fi
.SH Options:
.TP
\fB\--acknowledgments\fR
Prints out acknowledgments and license information and exits.
.TP
\fB\--allow-remote-networks\fR
By default, snis_server will drop connections from any client originating
from a different network, allowing connections only from clients on the
same network, as it is primarily a LAN game.  This option allows clients
to connect from different networks.  There is also a tweakable variable in the
console LOCAL-NET-ONLY, which this option sets to zero.
.TP
\fB\-e, --enable-enscript\fR
Enable the "enscript" command on the Demon screen.  This allows clients to create
files on the server so you should probably leave this off.
.TP
\fB\-h, --help\fR
Prints a usage message and exits.
.TP
\fB\-l, --lobbyhost\fR
Set the hostname at which the lobbyhost is running.
.TP
\fB\-L, --location\fR
Set the "location" to be used with the lobby server.  This is just
and arbitrary string for human consumption to differentiate one gameserver
from another.  It is required.
.TP
\fB\-m, --multiverse location\fR
Set the 'location' of the snis_multiverse server to connect to.  snis_server
will monitor the lobby looking for entries with game type of 'SNIS-MVERSE'
(i.e. for instances of snis_multiverse) and with the location field set to
the value specified by the --multiverse option.
.TP
\fB\-n nickname, --servernick nickname\fR
Specifies a nickname for this snis_server instance.  This name will be
transmitted to ssgl_server, and be visible in snis_client in the lobby,
and in the output of lsssgl.
.TP
\fB\-s solarsystem-name, --solarsystem solarsystem-name\fR
Specifies the solarsystem name. This is used to select what assets
to use for skybox textures, planet textures and so on.  The default
solarsystem name is "default".
.TP
\fB\-t, --trap-nans\fR
Trap (crash) whenever certain floating point exceptions occur.
This is for debugging erroneous floating point calculations that
produce NaN (not a number) values, such as divide-by-zero, overflow,
and so on.
.TP
\fB\-v, --version\fR
Print the program's version number and exit.
.SH FILES
.PP
/dev/input/js0, the joystick device node.
.PP
/dev/input/event5, the rumble effect device. 
.PP
/usr/share/snis/sounds/*.ogg contain the audio data used by the game.
.PP
share/snis/luascripts/* -- various lua scripts which may be run to
implement scenarios or missions. The file names of luascripts must
be uppercase -- use ABC.LUA, not abc.lua. One level of subdirectories
is allowed -- XXX/ABC.LUA is permitted, but not XXX/YYY/ABC.LUA.
If multiple subdirectories contain scripts with the same name, the
first script encountered is executed.  That is to say, if you have
A.LUA, X/A.LUA, Y/A.LUA, Z/A.LUA, and you execute "a" from the demon
screen, A.LUA will be executed. If A.LUA didn't exist, then X/A.LUA
would be executed.  You can differentate by typing, e.g. "z/a" on
the demon screen to execute Z/A.LUA.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.PP
SNISRAND can be set to a random seed to affect universe generation
.PP
SNISSERVERPORT can be used to control the port on which snis_server listens
for new connections.  If not set, a random port number is used which clients
discover via ssgl_server.  If set, the given port number is used (and clients
still discover it via ssgl_server.)
.PP
SNISSERVERNOLOBBY if this is defined the server will not attempt to connect to
the lobby server process "ssgl_server".  Generally SNISSERVERPORT should be used
when SNISSERVERNOLOBBY is used (otherwise you'll have to figure out which port
snis_server is using via e.g. examining output of "netstat -na").
.PP
SNIS_ASSET_DIR can cause the program to use a different directory to read
various assets (models, sounds, etc.) from a different directory allowing
easy substitution of all art assets.   Default is to use share/snis.
.PP
SNIS_SERVER_PORT_RANGE can cause the program to choose random ports in
the specified range MIN:MAX where MIN must be greater than 1024 and MAX
must be less than or equal to 65335.  This can be useful for restricting
the range of port numbers to those which a firewall configuration might
permit.  Default values are a minimum of 49151 and a maximum of 65335.
See http://www.iana.org/assignments/port-numbers
.PP
SSGL_PRIMARY_IP_PROBE_ADDR
If you are on a dual-homed machine with multiple network interfaces on
multiple networks or on a machine that is on an isolated network that
can't reach the internet, you may need to use this.  By default
snis_server assumes that the interface to listen for connections on is
one that can reach 8.8.8.8 (Google's DNS server).  No packets are
transmitted to 8.8.8.8, it just queries the routing table to see what
interface should be used to transmit there if we wanted to.
If ssgl_server is not reachable by the same interface that can reach
8.8.8.8, or if there is no interace that can reach 8.8.8.8, then this
variable can be set to any IP address on the network on which
ssgl_server is reachable so that the correct network interface is chosen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
snis_client(6), ssgl_server(6), snis_multiverse(6), lsssgl(1).
.SH GOOD LUCK
.PP
You'll need it.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Stephen M. Cameron 
.br
